# **Part III: Data Science: Tool for Good or Weapon?**

## A:
1) In the introduction of her book, O’Neil claims that Weapons of Math Destruction are “math-powered applications powering the data economy – based on choices made by fallible human beings … many of these models encoded human prejudice, misunderstanding, and bias into the software systems that increasingly managed our lives”. She poses that these models are not unbiased or infallible, hence making decisions solely based on their outcomes is resulting in a huge negative impact on the society as a whole. She believes that in certain cases these applications do not account for all the different variable, and thus do not provide accurate, comprehensive, or reliable results.

2) O’Neil gives an example of a teacher assessment tool, IMPACT, that determined the ratings of teachers based on student test scores and reviews from faculty and students. However, the issue with this application is that it gave more value to numeric test scores than human reviews and as a result many times test scores were inflated and did not depict students’ true knowledge. Thus in situations where the teachers did not help inflate the scores and as a result their students showed dropped score, the teachers were touted as bad and fired (despite being hard-working, honest, honest and good teachers). This example shows how WMDs do not always take all aspects in equal consideration. Another example of a WMD in our contemporary society is resume sorting programs that frequently rely on GPA and buzz words to select potential employees. In doing this, they give more value to numeric scores rather than skills actually valuable for the jobs.  

## B:       
In this study, the researchers studied the presence of both genders, female and male, in Computer Science literature & cross- gender collaboration rates, based on which they questioned when these genders will reach equal representation?  The researchers note that the collected data indicates that the rates of growth of proportion of females is slowing, in addition to cross-gender rates being lower than expected. Based on the analysis of the results, the researchers concluded that the proportion of female authors will not be equal to the proportion of male authors by the end of the twenty first century. 
